docs: Add example for using GCP Workload Identity (#2000)
slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator: internal/builders/container/README.md

      registry-password: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

#### With GCP Artifact Registry

The following is an example of pushing an image to an [Artifact Registry](https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry) in GCP and generating the provenance for that image. In order for you to run this example, you will need to have a [Workload Identity Federation](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation) that enables you to exchange a GitHub token for access within GCP. If you have not yet created one or have not created a provider within your existing federation for GitHub, please review the following resources:

- [Setting up Workload Identity Federation](https://github.com/google-github-actions/auth#setting-up-workload-identity-federation)
- [Enabling keyless authentication from GitHub Actions](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/identity-security/enabling-keyless-authentication-from-github-actions)

Once you have a Workload Identity Federation with a GitHub provider, you're ready to begin implementing the GitHub Action below. 

Friendly reminder to set the following environment variables in your GitHub settings:
```bash

>   # EXAMPLE:

Reviewer: nit: maybe provide a link to the GitHub documentation. Or maybe the original blog post. I don't think it's a well-known feature.

  # projects/123123412578/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/my-pool/providers/my-provider
  WORKLOAD_IDENTITY_PROVIDER=
  # EXAMPLE:
  # my-service-account@blank-check-231234.iam.gserviceaccount.com
  SERVICE_ACCOUNT=
```

```yaml
env:
  IMAGE_NAME: ${{ github.repository }}
  # FORMAT: 
  # {region}-docker.pkg.dev/{project-id}/{artifact-registry-name}
  # EXAMPLE:
  # northamerica-northeast1-docker.pkg.dev/blank-check-231234/your-repository
  REPOSITORY_PATH: ${{ vars.REPOSITORY_PATH }}

> 

Reviewer: please set the default pemissions, e.g. 
```yaml
permissions: read-all
```

or 
```yaml
permissions:
   contents: read
```

Author: I don't understand the what or why behind this comment. Could you expand please?

Reviewer 2: I think that if this is meant to be a full example it should include a set of default permissions.
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#permissions

The defaults are usually permissive and we'd like to encourage folks to explicitly set them to be less permissive.
https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/automatic-token-authentication#permissions-for-the-github_token

      registry-password: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

#### With GCP Artifact Registry

The following is an example of pushing an image to an [Artifact Registry](https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry) in GCP and generating the provenance for that image. In order for you to run this example, you will need to have a [Workload Identity Federation](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/workload-identity-federation) that enables you to exchange a GitHub token for access within GCP. If you have not yet created one or have not created a provider within your existing federation for GitHub, please review the following resources:

> - https://gist.github.com/palewire/12c4b2b974ef735d22da7493cf7f4d37 

Reviewer 2: I think the `google-github-actions/auth` docs are  more likely to stay up to date.
```suggestion
- [Setting up Workload Identity Federation](https://github.com/google-github-actions/auth#setting-up-workload-identity-federation)
```

> - https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/identity-security/enabling-keyless-authentication-from-github-actions 

Reviewer 2: nit: reference by title rather than URL
```suggestion
- [Enabling keyless authentication from GitHub Actions](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/identity-security/enabling-keyless-authentication-from-github-actions)
```

      - id: 'auth'
        name: 'Authenticate to Google Cloud'
        uses: 'google-github-actions/auth@v1.0.0'
        with:
          token_format: 'access_token'
          workload_identity_provider: ${{ vars.WORKLOAD_IDENTITY_PROVIDER }}
          service_account: ${{ vars.SERVICE_ACCOUNT }}

      - name: Authenticate Docker
        uses: docker/login-action@49ed152c8eca782a232dede0303416e8f356c37b # v2.0.0
        with:
          registry: northamerica-northeast1-docker.pkg.dev
          username: oauth2accesstoken
          password: ${{ steps.auth.outputs.access_token }}

      - name: Extract metadata (tags, labels) for Docker
        id: meta
        uses: docker/metadata-action@69f6fc9d46f2f8bf0d5491e4aabe0bb8c6a4678a # v4.0.1
        with:
          images: ${{ vars.REPOSITORY_PATH }}/${{ env.IMAGE_NAME }}

      - name: Build and push Docker image
        uses: docker/build-push-action@e551b19e49efd4e98792db7592c17c09b89db8d8 # v3.0.0
        id: build
        with:
          push: true
          tags: |
            ${{ steps.meta.outputs.tags }}
            ${{ vars.REPOSITORY_PATH }}/${{ env.IMAGE_NAME }}:latest
          labels: ${{ steps.meta.outputs.labels }}

>       - name: Output image
>         id: image
>         run: |
>           # NOTE: Set the image as an output because the `env` context is not
>           # available to the inputs of a reusable workflow call.
>           image_name="${REPOSITORY_PATH}/${IMAGE_NAME}"
>           echo image=$image_name >> "$GITHUB_OUTPUT"
> 
>       - name: Output workload_identity_provider
>         id: idprov
>         run: |
>           workload_identity_provider=${WORKLOAD_IDENTITY_PROVIDER}
>           echo widp=$workload_identity_provider >> "$GITHUB_OUTPUT"
> 
>       - name: Output service_account
>         id: sa
>         run: |
>           service_account=${SERVICE_ACCOUNT}
>           echo sa=$service_account >> "$GITHUB_OUTPUT"

Reviewer 2: nit: You could combine these into one step and save yourself some lines of code. This is often helpful in docs.

```suggestion
      - name: Outputs
        id: outputs
        run: |
          # NOTE: Set the outputs because the `env` context is not
          # available to the inputs of a reusable workflow call.
          image_name="${REPOSITORY_PATH}/${IMAGE_NAME}"
          echo image=$image_name >> "$GITHUB_OUTPUT"
          
          workload_identity_provider=${WORKLOAD_IDENTITY_PROVIDER}
          echo widp=$workload_identity_provider >> "$GITHUB_OUTPUT"
 
          service_account=${SERVICE_ACCOUNT}
          echo sa=$service_account >> "$GITHUB_OUTPUT"
```

  # This step calls the container workflow to generate provenance and push it to
  # the container registry.
  provenance:
    needs: [build]
    permissions:
      actions: read # for detecting the Github Actions environment.
      id-token: write # for creating OIDC tokens for signing.
      packages: write # for uploading attestations.
    uses: slsa-framework/slsa-github-generator/.github/workflows/generator_container_slsa3.yml@v1.5.0
    with:
      image: ${{ needs.build.outputs.image }}
      digest: ${{ needs.build.outputs.digest }}

>       gcp-workload-identity-provider: ${{ needs.build.outputs.workload_identity_provider }}
>       gcp-service-account: ${{ needs.build.outputs.service_account }}

Reviewer 2: nit: Do we actually even need to set the outputs from the previous job? or even the env vars? Could we just reference the `vars`? Not sure if this actually works.

```suggestion
      gcp-workload-identity-provider: ${{ vars.WORKLOAD_IDENTITY_PROVIDER }}
      gcp-service-account: ${{ vars.SERVICE_ACCOUNT }}
```

Author: You're right.

      registry-username: ${{ github.actor }}
    secrets:
      registry-password: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}

```

> NOTE: There are existing challenges with using secrets in reusable workflows. Due to these problems, you will likely need to use unencrypted environment variables. To learn more: https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/17554 and https://colinsalmcorner.com/consuming-environment-secrets-in-reusable-workflows/.

Reviewer 2: Maybe I'm misunderstanding something but IIUC, Since the user isn't writing a reusable workflow, but rather calling one, this shouldn't really be an issue. Are you referring to something specific here?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this is specific to our reusable workflows or to workload identity so maybe we can just leave this out as I think it might confuse the reader.

Or maybe you can be more specific? Like saying something like "`WORKLOAD_IDENTITY_PROVIDER` and `SERVICE_ACCOUNT` should be stored in `vars` rather than `secrets` as you cannot pass secrets to reusable workflow inputs".

wdut?
